There is one more crucial step to staying backtrack ready while you're traveling, once you've researched
your destination and familiarize yourself with all of its possible exit routes and safe places.
You also then need to stay alert mobile and ready to use all of that awesome new information.
The good news is we're usually a bit more focused on how light we're packing and how ready we are to
react to whatever may happen when we are traveling.
But here are a few specific tips I have on how to stay alert, light and covered during your travels.
First and foremost, watch your alcohol intake drink to enjoy, not to get drunk and watch your drink.
Or better yet, avoid drinking entirely, especially if you're in a country or an area like, say,
some countries in the Middle East where it's illegal.
If you get drunk or worse, your judgment and motor skills are going to be significantly impaired,
meaning your ability to react quickly and intelligently.
When I'm traveling alone, I never let myself have more than two drinks in a night.
It helps me keep my senses sharp, and it's easier on my travel budget, too.
You also want to keep your head up and looking around you.
Taking note of anything odd or suspicious that you might want to avoid.
Keep note of exit routes in case you need to get away quickly.
It doesn't hurt to be seen looking around and paying attention either and listening.
That means not walking around with both of your headphones in or staring at your phone.
Both will prevent you from quickly noticing things around you while also making you seem like an easier
target.
It's also good to have a makeshift weapon at the ready, like your keys between your fingers or a travel
friendly self-defense keychain.
I personally always travel with a tactical pen like this one and remember to keep those eyes scanning,
though maybe try to do so in a friendly manner.
The goal is to appear alert.
Not like an --.
You also want to stay light and ready to move.
You never know when you're going to need to grab everything and run, either to catch that train or
to evade that creepy guy that will just not leave you alone.
Whatever the case, it's good to stay mobile ready, so keep your things compact and portable.
Use a spacious but light bag and wear it crossbody so your hands and arms are free to grab that last
thing you left behind or defend yourself.
The point is to have everything essential you may need on you, but in such a way that you aren't encumbered
if you need to move quickly.
As for staying covered, I mean this both physically with proper weather protection and theoretically
with proper travel insurance.
If your destination has any chance of inclement weather, you'll want to be prepared with a good compact
umbrella.
Versatile rain or snow layers and ideally waterproof or at least water resistant shoes.
In terms of travel insurance, I know it's easy to skip this step, but you never know what disaster
may strike, whether that's a cancelled flight or lost luggage, or a run in with a drunk driver.
I'm sorry to say so, but it's true that bang ups and hang ups can happen to you.
So as the cliche goes, it's better to be safe than sorry.
Traveling especially alone as a woman is already a pretty courageous endeavor.
You don't need to take any additional unnecessary risks that won't make you any more of a badass.
Just plain stupid.
So don't drink too much.
Stay alert.
Pack light.
Bring an umbrella.
Get travel insurance.
And while you're at it, maybe do other smart protective things like buckle your seatbelt and wear a
helmet and put on that bright neon orange life vest.
Risking your safety is so not worth the picture perfect selfie that would be, like, totally ruined.